The time-of-flight (ToF) range imaging cameras indirectly measure the time
taken from the modulation light source to the scene and back to the camera
and it is this principle that is used in depth cameras to perform depth
measurements. This thesis is focused on ToF cameras that are based on the
amplitude modulated continuous wave (AMCW) lidar techniques which measure
the phase difference between the emitted and reflected light signals. Due
to their portable size, feasible design, low weight and low energy consumption,
these cameras have high demand in many applications. Commercially available
AMCW ToF cameras have relatively high noise levels due to electronic
sources such as shot noise, reset noise, amplifier noise, crosstalk, analogue to
digital converters quantization and multipath light interference. Many noise
sources in these cameras such as harmonic contamination, non-linearity, multipath
interferences and light scattering are well investigated. In contrast, the
effect of electronic jitter as a noise source in ranging cameras is barely studied.

Jitter is defined to be any timing movement with reference to an ideal
signal. An investigation of the effect of jitter on range imaging is important
because timing errors potentially could cause errors in measuring phase, thus
in range. The purpose of this research is to investigate the effect of jitter on
range measurement in AMCW ToF range imaging. This is achieved by three
main contributions: a development of a common algorithm for measurement of
the jitter present in signals from depth cameras, secondly the proposal of a cost
effective alternative method to measure jitter by using a software defined radio
receiver, and finally an analysis of the influence of jitter on range measurement.

Among the three contributions of this thesis, first, an algorithm for jitter
extraction of a signal without access to a reference clock signal is proposed.
The proposed algorithm is based upon Fourier analysis with signal processing
techniques and it can be used for real time jitter extraction on a modulated
signal with any kind of shape (sinusoidal, triangular, rectangular). The method
is used to measure the amount of jitter in the light signals of two AMCW 
ToF range imaging cameras, namely, MESA Imaging SwissRanger 4000 and
SoftKinetic DepthSense 325. Periodic and random jitter were found to be
present in the light sources of both cameras with the MESA camera notably
worse with random jitter of 159.6 ps RMS in amplitude.

Next, in a novel approach, an inexpensive software defined radio (SDR)
USB dongle is used with the proposed algorithm to extract the jitter in the
light signal of the above two ToF cameras. This is a cost effective alternative
to the expensive real-time medium speed digital oscilloscope. However, it is
shown that this method has some significant limitations, (1) it can measure
the jitter only up to half of the intermediate-frequency obtained from the down
shift of the amplified radio frequency with the local oscillator which is less than
the Nyquist frequency of the dongle and (2) if the number of samples per cycle
captured from this dongle is not sufficient then the jitter extraction does not
succeed since the signal is not properly (smoothly) represented.

Finally, the periodic and random jitter influence on range measurements 
made with AMCW range imaging cameras are studied. An analytical model
for the periodic jitter on the range measurements under the heterodyne and
homodyne operations in AMCW ToF range imaging cameras is obtained in
the frequency domain. The analytical model is tested through simulated data
with various parameters in the system. The product of angular modulation
frequency of the camera and the amplitude of the periodic jitter is a characteristic
parameter for the phase error due to the presence of periodic jitter.
We found that for currently available AMCW cameras (modulation frequency
less than 100 MHz), neither periodic nor random jitter has a measurable effect
on range measurement. But with modulation frequency increases and integration
period decreases likely in the near future, periodic jitter may have a
measurable detection affect on ranging.

The influence of random jitter is also investigated by obtaining an analytical
model based on stochastic calculus by using fundamental statistics and
Fourier analysis. It is assumed that the random jitter follows the Gaussian distribution.
Monte Carlo simulation is performed on the model obtained for a 1 ms 
integration period. We found increasing the modulation frequency above
approximately 400 MHz with random jitter of 140 ps has a measurable affect
on ranging.